# 2D-collision-simulator
Hi. For this project, i wanted to simulate object collisions in a two dimensional space. By using pygame I was able to constantly track the coordinate position of the first object (the curser (that has a display icon of a black circle) as well as the so-called 'object' that interacts with the curser-orb and the screen-edges. The simulation actively tracks the distance between the two orbs by considering the distance the hypetenuse in a right triangle (this value is displayed as "Distance" in the top left corner). Throughout the script I refer to this distance as a vector, which is defined by a direction and a size (the distance between the two orb-cores). When the size of the vector gets sufficiently little (approx. less than the radius of the orb * 2) then the program will initiate a collision-interaction between the orbs. On impact simulation will: 1) Copy the vector values and scale them down so the vector-size = 1, this scaled down vector will indicate the direction that the object will move post-collision. 2) It will also copy the velocity of the curser into the variable called "object_velocity". (The curser velocity is found by actively keeping track of the curser-position for the last 5 frames in an array if tuples. These are used to compute the average curser-velocity over these last 5 frames. This is necessary to prevent the curser from "catching" the object immediately after the collision, when the curser's velocity = 0, after which the object's velocity will take that value as it's own velocity and stop it's movement in an unrealistic fashion). By copying over the velocity of the curser as the velocity of object on impact implies that their masses are equal, which would make sense as they are identical in size. I've additionally made the object velocity reduce with .3% for each frame as it personally comes off more natural. This simulation was a little project of mine (written in pygame) and a further exploration of my last physics based simulation of collisions between objects of different masses in a 1 dimensional space.
